Added guides for using FTP and SMB Connectors (#324)
wso2/ballerina-integrator: docs/learn/guides/file-integrations/file-integration-using-ftp/README.md

# File Integration using FTP

> The WSO2 FTP Connector lets you connect to an FTP server, and perform operations on files and folders stored on the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WSO2 FTP Connector enables you to connect to an FTP server and perform operations on files and folders stored on the 
```

Author: Fixed.

> server. These operations include basic file operations such as reading, updating and deleting files, and listening to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server. These operations include basic file operations such as reading, updating, and deleting files, and listening to 
```

Author: Fixed.

the server to invoke operations when a file is created or deleted.

> > In this guide you will learn about how to use the WSO2 FTP Connector to create an FTP listener service using Ballerina.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this guide you will learn how to use the WSO2 FTP Connector to create an FTP listener service using Ballerina.
```

Author: Fixed.

The following are the sections available in this guide.

- [What you'll build](#what-youll-build)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Implementation](#implementation)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)

> ## What you'll Build

Reviewer: Shall we add a diagram?

Author: Added.

> To understand how to build a service to listen to an FTP server, let's consider the use case of a data center which uses 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand how to build a service to listen to an FTP server, let's consider the use case of a data center that uses 
```

Author: Fixed.

an FTP server to store data files. When a new file is added to the server, the FTP listener will read the file and add 
the file name and size to a map, and when the file is deleted from the server, it will remove the entry from the map. 

## Prerequisites
 
- [Ballerina Distribution](https://ballerina.io/learn/getting-started/)

> - A Text Editor or an IDE 

Reviewer: We have to change this to only use VS Code. This is the recommended IDE for Ballerina Integrator.

Author: Fixed.

> **Tip**: For a better development experience, install one of the following Ballerina IDE plugins: 

> >[VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ballerina.ballerina), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>[VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ballerina.ballerina), 
```

Author: FIxed.

>[IntelliJ IDEA](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina)
- An FTP Server (See [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-vsftpd-for-a-user-s-directory-on-ubuntu-16-04) on how to setup an FTP server)

## Implementation

> > If you want to skip the basics, you can download the GitHub repo and directly move to the "Testing" section by skipping  "Implementation" section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to skip the basics, you can download the GitHub repo and directly move to the "Testing" section by skipping the "Implementation" section.
```

Author: Fixed.

### Create the project structure

Ballerina is a complete programming language that supports custom project structures. Use the following package structure for this guide.
```
file-integration-using-ftp
    ├── src
       └── ftp_listener
           └── ftp_listener.bal
```

Create the Ballerina project `file-integration-using-ftp` and add the `ftp_listener` module using the below commands. 

```bash
    $ ballerina new file-integration-using-ftp
    $ cd file-integration-using-ftp
    $ ballerina add ftp_listener
```

The above package structure will be created for you. Create the `ftp_listener.bal` file in the Ballerina module.

### Developing the FTP listener service

Let's start implementation by importing the WSO2 FTP Connector in the `ftp_listener.bal` file you just created.

```ballerina

> import wso2/ftp;

Reviewer: Are we using code directly or pulling code from the file for specific line number range?

```

Then add the configuration for file type and file location to listen to.

 ```ballerina
type Config record {
    string fileNamePattern;
    string filePath;
};

Config conf = {
    fileNamePattern: config:getAsString("FTP_FILE_NAME_PATTERN"),
    filePath: config:getAsString("FTP_LISTENER_PATH")
};
```

> Create an FTP listener instance by defining the configuration.

Reviewer: We need to say more here. What are the basicAuth credentials you are passing? Mention about host and port. Also details about path and pattern.

Author: Added.

```ballerina
listener ftp:Listener dataFileListener = new({
    protocol: ftp:FTP,
    host: config:getAsString("FTP_HOST"),
    port: config:getAsInt("FTP_LISTENER_PORT"),
    secureSocket: {
        basicAuth: {
            username: config:getAsString("FTP_USERNAME"),
            password: config:getAsString("FTP_PASSWORD")
        }
    },
    path: conf.filePath,
    fileNamePattern: conf.fileNamePattern
    pollingInterval: config:getAsInt("FTP_POLLING_INTERVAL"),
});
```

> Then implement the FTP client endpoint to do the file processing.

Reviewer: What processing exactly are you doing here?

Author: Updated.

     
```ballerina
ftp:ClientEndpointConfig ftpConfig = {
    protocol: ftp:FTP,
    host: config:getAsString("FTP_HOST"),
    port: config:getAsInt("FTP_LISTENER_PORT"),
    secureSocket: {
     basicAuth: {
         username: config:getAsString("FTP_USERNAME"),
         password: config:getAsString("FTP_PASSWORD")
     }
    }
};

ftp:Client ftpClient = new(ftpConfig);
```

> Create the service to listen to the FTP server. 

Reviewer: Add some detail about added files and deleted files.

Author: Added.

```ballerina
service dataFileService on dataFileListener {
    resource function processDataFile(ftp:WatchEvent fileEvent) {

        foreach ftp:FileInfo file in fileEvent.addedFiles {
            log:printInfo("Added file path: " + file.path);
            processNewFile(file.path);
        }
        foreach string file in fileEvent.deletedFiles {
            log:printInfo("Deleted file path: " + file);
            processDeletedFile(file.path);
        }
    }
}
```

Declare a map to store file names and sizes.

```ballerina
map<int> fileMap = {};
```

> Now, implement the processing of added and deleted files.

Reviewer: Add some details on what exactly is happening when processing.

Author: Added.

```ballerina
function processNewFile(string filePath) {
    int|error fileSize = ftpClient -> size(filePath);
    if(fileSize is int){
        fileMap[filePath] = response;
        log:printInfo("Added file: " + filePath + " - " + fileSize.toString());
    } else {
        log:printError("Error in getting file size", response);
    }
}

function processDeletedFile(string filePath) {
    if(fileMap.hasKey(filePath)){
        fileMap.remove(filePath);
        log:printInfo("Deleted file: " + filePath);
    }
}
```

## Testing

### Invoking the service

Start the FTP server you will listen to before starting the listener service.

Navigate to `file-integration-using-ftp` and run the following command to start the listener service in `ftp_listener.bal`.

```bash

>    $ ballerina run ftp_listener

Reviewer: Should we use `ballerina build` instead?

Author: Added.

```

> Add and delete files in the FTP server and check the logs to verify the service is working as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add and delete files in the FTP server and check the logs to verify whether the service is working as expected.
```

Author: Fixed.

## Deployment

> After the development process, you can deploy the services using below methods by selecting as you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the development process, you can deploy the services using any of the following methods.
```

Author: Updated.

> ### Deploying locally

Reviewer: Do you need to run any `java jar` command as well?

Author: Added.
